
Today we are here with our chef Chundra.   Uh amma thank you once again for doing   this. You know we thought uh we'll go   live today. Uh you know we've been doing   multiple videos. So I thought we will go   live uh so as to clear all doubts from   our viewers. Um so today's session is   going to be on preparing dsha.

 Uh so   there are many viewers who've been   asking us doubts about making dsha. So   today I thought it'll be uh you know   good to have this session. Before we   start uh I'd like to have a small   introduction from you because this is   our first session.   >> Uh good evening viewers. I'm Chandra.   I'm a homemaker.

 Parallelly I keep doing   videos on our channel cook with superya.   Today I'm very proud to tell you that   I've uh nearly done about thousand   videos on cookery.   Today I'm very excited because today is   our live session and I'm very happy to   be with all of you and uh here to share   all my views with all my viewers today.   >> Thank you Omar and before we start you   know I urge all our viewers to keep   asking us the doubts that you have on   making DSHA.

 Now this would mean that   you know you have doubts regarding why   uh you know your dshas are not crispy.   This could also mean you know you have   doubts regarding how to ferment dosa   batter. Uh it could also mean that you   know you have doubts regarding what is   the ratio of dal is to rice when you're   actually making this uh dossa.

 So leave   your comments and we'll be happy to   clear all these doubts for you. Uh   before we jump on to live questions uh   we're going to have some questions that   we have been mailed with. So some people   have actually mailed us some questions.   For example, Amma, what is the ratio of   rice and dal that we must use for   preparing this uh batter uh that we wish   to make for dosa? Can you please share   your thoughts on it?   >> Very important.

 Even in my channel I   have mentioned that to get good   qualities of uh good quality dosshas we   the soaking all the different uh stages   of making the batter for example the   soaking grinding fermenting and uh you   know storing all these phases are very   very important and this is a very nice   question and uh here I am here to tell   you that the rice and the dal should be   soaked in the ratio Forest one generally   but some people here are in the habit of   using this raw rice is to urad dal.

 But   my tip here would be that to use both   boiled rice as well as raw rice while   soaking and making the batter because uh   this will improve the quality of the   dshas you make. This should be if   suppose we are using about 4 is to1   ratio. It should be 2 + 2 that is two   boiled glasses of boiled rice plus two   glasses of raw rice for which you will   soak one glass of whole urad dal or the   gundu urad dal as we refer to in the   market and this the soaking should be   done separately. Thank you.

  >> This is this is wonderful amma. Now how   do we actually make know you I I the   last answer you told me uh boiled and   raw rice. How do you actually   differentiate between boiled and raw   rice? How do I as a common person get to   know what is boiled, what is raw rice?   Uh can I can you kind of share your   thoughts on how we can do this?   >> Very important because uh this uh   actually the quality of rice that is the   boiled rice you use you know uh depends   on the quality of the dshas you get.

 So   normally when you go to the market and   ask them they give you the boiled rice   for idli idli boiled rice. This is the   quality of ponyi or the or we commonly   call it as a ponyi idli rice or the   boiled rice for the idli. Uh this is the   kind of rice we use actually for making   idlies and dosas.

 And uh you know by   making use of this boiled rice along   soaking along with the raw rice improves   the quality of the quality and texture   the flavor of the dsha you prepare   actually.   >> So does this mean I have to you know   soak them separately or should I grind   them separately? How does it work? Can   you be a little more in detail? Yes,   sure.

 Um, it has to be soaked of course   separately because generally people make   the mistake of soaking the rice, the   dal, everything together and even   grinding it together. But this actually   will not give you the correct quality of   the dshas we make because for to get a   good quality dsha with flavor and   texture you have to soak the rice and   dal separately and also grind them   separately and then mix it at in the end   actually.

  >> So basically I'm going to soak rice   separately, dal separately and finally   I'm going to mix both of them in the   soaked form itself. grind it separately   and then mix it actually in the end.   >> Ah that this is a very very useful tip.   Thank you so much amma. Uh one question   that you know keeps coming to me uh in   the terms of comments is how long should   I soak this rice uh and how should I do   this? very very logical question because   people soak uh you know as I have told   in my video they soak it when they do   when they are having short of time to   make the dshas etc when they plant they   you know soak it for a very short time   this does not leave lot of moisture and   the soaking to happen properly and then   this affects the quality and texture the   dshas or the idlies become very hard and   hence take care that it should be soaked   at least for a minimum of 8 to 10 hours

  before you start the grinding process   and the dal should soak only for 2 to 2   and 1/2 hours before you start grinding.   >> So is it is it good for me to say that   you know I I will soak it overnight   itself if I have to make dshas the next   day.   >> Of course that would be ideal actually.   >> So both rice and urad dal has to be   soaked separately overnight.

 Actually   the rice could be soaked overnight but   the dal could be soaked over early in   the morning actually and should be   grinded immediately after 2 hours.   >> Okay thank you ma that is very very   useful. uh you know some users have some   you know some viewers have also reached   out to us regarding how we should be   fermenting uh you know fermenting of uh   this batter is very very important and   they have actually reached out to us   asking us can you share some tips on how   we can fermented better. Actually out of   all the four this reaches the you know   topmost priority in all our questions   because most of the viewers ask me uh   you know why the texture of dshas are   not good. They are hard and uh you know   leathery etc and they do do not give us   the flavor. This is mostly because   fermentation is not complete. The

  fermentation should actually come after   the uh batter is grinded totally and   mixed nicely with your hand. It should   get complete fermentation for about 8 to   12 hours minimum. If this is complete   then the texture of the dosas or the   idlies would have a good quality and   texture.   >> This is very very useful lama.

 So you   know I I keep wondering you know so many   people keep asking us this this question   and this is one problem that they keep   facing very very regularly the   fermentation doesn't get completed you   know uh once once they have it uh you   know either done overnight or they put   it in the afternoon.

 So uh in case I   have to ensure this fermentation happens   completely what can I do uh especially   in winter seasons for example you know   people find it very difficult for this   dosa batter to ferment fully. So how can   we ensure it you know fermentss   completely.   >> Exactly. Um you know as I told you uh   the batter should get completely   fermented.

 uh when the fermentation uh   becomes difficult during the cold days,   I have given you a tip in my channel   telling that you know you can remove the   caps of the dry red chili and you can   insert the capsu uh region inside the   batter as well as uh you know keep it   closed in a warmer place. This would uh   you know enhance the fermentation   process uh you know uh or the action of   fermentation to happen quickly and uh   completely and uh unless it's the   fermentation is complete the quality of   the dshas will not be good and uh we   always have to make sure that the   fermentation the batter should not be   stored inside the fridge unless it is   completely fermented outside only then   you should transfer for the batter to   the refrigerator.   >> Ah now this this brings me to a very   very important question. Many of us

  actually take the batter directly from   the fridge and try to make dshas. Now   this is you know something that most of   us office goers have you know the habit   of we take the dsha directly from the uh   you know the fridge and start you know   making dsshas and we find it very very   difficult.

 How um you know is it first   of all is it good for us to do this? How   do we actually ensure that you know we   don't find this difficult?   >> Exactly. This is a very logical question   because many of our viewers are facing   this difficulty. Uh you know saying that   the batter sticks to the pan um you know   it's difficult to remove the dshas with   a ladle with a flipper.

  >> Correct. Correct. So it is right. This   is what happens. So when I when I place   uh the the the batter on the pan   immediately it starts to stick and I'm   not able to you know flip the dsha   completely. So and because of this you   know I find it very difficult it either   gets completely burnt I'm not able to   flip it properly.

 So what should I do in   this case?   >> Very important. Uh the batter should   suppose we have to make the dshas about   um you know the batter has to be out of   the refrigerator for at least an hour or   45 minutes before you start making it or   pouring it in the pan. And uh very   important is that the pan should be   seasoned properly before you start   making the dshas also.

  >> Wait, I'll stop here. Sorry. What is   meaning of season? If you can talk about   seasoning of the pan. Yeah.   uh you know place the pan in the tawa or   the pan on the gas stove and then apply   heat and when it when the tawa is just   hot you just smear oil or sprinkle a   little bit sprinkle a little of water on   the tawa and you get that uh sound you   know   >> the sizzling sound you mean?   >> Yeah the sizzling sound and then your   pan is ready for making the dshas.

  >> Okay. Okay. Okay. So once once we have   you know have the now you have the pan   ready. So now what do we do?   >> And this is the right time you have to   actually spread the or pour the dosha   batter on the pan and start spreading it   immediately in a circular pattern   because the more you allow the batter to   uh you know uh remain and then start you   know spreading it will turn hard in the   center and you will not get the required   shape and the quality.

  >> I think this has been very very useful.   Amma I think this is our first video and   you know we've had a few uh visitors   come and ask us a few questions but   before us starting this session we had a   few users who have already emailed these   questions so I thought I hope that you   know this live session has been useful   to all of our viewers we are planning to   do more such live sessions where we can   get doubts and queries from our viewers   and have them clarified online you can   interact with us directly and through   these sessions. Um, keep tuned in to our   channel for more such live videos and we   of course going to keep the other videos   going. Thank you for all your support   and you guys have been very very   supportive to us. We are a very early   channel. We we we are just you know uh   starting off with this initiative and uh   thank you so much for all your support   once again. Until the next video, thank   you so much.   >> Thank you.
